Refresh quickstart guide on Rootstock (#967)
rsksmart/devportal: content/rsk-devportal/guides/quickstart/hardhat/deploy-smart-contract.md

---
menu_order: 500
menu_title: Deploy Smart Contract
layout: rsk
title: 'Deploy Smart Contract'
description: 'Learn how to deploy your Rootstock smart contract on your local environment and the Rootstock network'
tags: quick-start, getting-started, guide, how-to, bitcoin, rsk, rootstock, blockchain
render_features: 'collapsible'
---

In this section, we'll deploy your token contract to your local environment and also deploy and interact with the contract on the Rootstock network.

### Step 1: Configure Your Deployment File

To configure your deployment file:

> 1. Navigate to the `scripts` directory in the root directory of your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the `scripts` directory in the root directory of the quick start repo:
```

    ```shell
    cd scripts
    ```

2. In the scripts directory, open the `deploy.js` deployment file:

>     - `deploy.js` initial state:

Reviewer: Same thing for this too, no need to show the user this as it takes up space, add a permalink to this code block from the GitHub repo

      ```
      This should give a result similar to the following:
      ![Deploy Successful](/assets/img/guides/quickstart/hardhat/deploy-success.png)
- Deploy to Rootstock Testnet and Mainnet
   - Use Hardhat's run command to deploy your contract, depending on the desired network. You can choose to deploy to either Rootstock's Testnet or Mainnet.
   - To deploy to the Rootstock Testnet, run:
      ```shell
      npx hardhat run --network rskTestnet scripts/deploy.js
      ```
   - To deploy to the Rootstock Mainnet, run:
      ```shell
      npx hardhat run --network rskMainnet scripts/deploy.js
      ```

### Step 3: Deploy Your Contract on Rootstock Network

Follow these steps to deploy your contract on Rootstock network:

#### Configure MetaMask

[](#top "collapsible")
1. Install Metamask
   - If you haven't already, install the MetaMask browser extension: https://metamask.io/
2. Open Metamask
   - Open MetaMask and set up a new connection for the Rootstock Testnet. You can do this by clicking on the network selection dropdown at the top and choosing **Custom RPC**.
3. Enter network details
   - Enter the following network details:

>       - Network Name: Rootstock Testnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Network Name: RSK Testnet
```

      - New RPC URL: ‘https://public-node.testnet.rsk.co’
      - Chain ID: `31`
      - Currency Symbol (optional): `tRBTC`
4. Save configuration
   - Click **Save** to add the network.

#### Connect Remix to Rootstock Testnet

1. Open Remix IDE

   - Go to [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/) in your browser.

2. Connect MetaMask to Remix:

   - In Remix, go to the **Deploy & run transactions** plugin.
   - In the **Environment** dropdown, select **Injected Web3**.

>    - The remix will connect to MetaMask. Make sure MetaMask is on the Rootstock Testnet network that you configured earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - This will connect to MetaMask. Make sure MetaMask is on the RSK Testnet network that you configured earlier.
```

> ### Step 4: Interact with Your Deployed Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Interact with the Deployed Contract
```

To interact with your deployed contract on Rootstock network:

[](#top "collapsible")
- Load Your Deployed Contract
   - You can load your deployed contract in Remix by entering its address and the ABI.
   - The ABI can be found in your project's build artifacts, or you can compile the contract in Remix to generate it.
   - Paste the contract address and ABI in Remix's **Deployed Contracts** section.
- Test the Contract
   - Once the contract is loaded, you can interact with it through Remix.
   - Call its functions, send transactions, and observe the results.

>    - Ensure you have enough testnet RBTC in your MetaMask wallet for transaction fees.

Reviewer: How do they get the tRBTC?. Kindly point to a link in the tutorial or on the devportal that explains this
